Charts 2.0 (#705)
netdata/learn: docs/cloud/visualize/interact-new-charts.md

---
title: Interact with new charts

> description: "Learn how to get the most out of Netdata's new charts. These will help you make sense out of all the metrics at your disposal, helping you troubleshoot with real-time, per-second metrics data."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Learn how to get the most out of Netdata's new charts. These will help you make sense out of all the metrics at your disposal, helping you troubleshoot with real-time, per-second metric data"
```

type: how-to
custom_edit_url: null
---

> ⚠️ This new version of charts is currently **only** available on Netdata Cloud. We didn't want to keep this valuable

> > feature from you, so while we get this into your hands, collect feedback and iterate over it. We'll soon get this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> feature from you, so while we get this into your hands, collect feedback and iterate over it, we'll soon get this
```

> > available also on Netdata Agent dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> available also on the Netdata Agent dashboard.
```

> Netdata excels in collecting, storing, and organizing metrics in out-of-the-box dashboards. To transform all this data into an effective visualization tool, that helps you make sense out of all the available metrics we introduce a new version of  Netdata charts. These

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Netdata excels in collecting, storing, and organizing metrics in out-of-the-box dashboards. To transform all this data into an effective visualization tool, that helps you make sense out of all the available metrics we're introducing a new and improved version of Netdata charts. These
```

> will provide lots of useful information and invite you to further explore your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will provide a lot of useful information and we invite you to further explore your data.
```

Built on top of charts, that update every second with new metrics, we aimed to bring the following to you:

> * Enjoy the high resolution and granularity of metrics collected by Netdata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enjoy the high-resolution, granular metrics collected by Netdata
```

> * Explore visualization with more options such as Line, Stacked and Area types (other types like bar, pie, gauges are to be added shortly)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Explore visualization with more graphing options such as line, stacked, and area types (others like bar, pie, gauges, to be added shortly)
```

> * Explore visualization with more options such as Line, Stacked and Area types (other types like bar, pie, gauges are to be added shortly)

Reviewer: Are area charts the same as XY scatter chart? I think maybe that term might be more familiar. I'm also not sure what gauges charts are?

> * Examine all the metrics where your cursor is with a tooltip

Reviewer: Do we want to add a few screenshots of GIFs here? Just a thought! Might be nice to see something like the tooltip and different graph types visually.

* Use intuitive tooling and shortcuts to pan, zoom or highlight your charts
* On highlight, ease access to [Metric Correlations](/docs/cloud/insights/metric-correlations) so you can see which other metrics have similar patterns
* Have the dimensions sorted based on name or value
* Full screen mode
* Read useful information about the chart, it’s plugin, context and type
* Get the chart status and possible errors. On top, reload functionality

> These new charts will available on [Overview tab](/docs/cloud/visualize/overview), Single Node view and on your [Custom Dashboards](/docs/cloud/visualize/dashboards). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These new charts will be available on [Overview tab](/docs/cloud/visualize/overview), Single Node view and on your [Custom Dashboards](/docs/cloud/visualize/dashboards). 
```

## Overall

> Here is the overall look and feel of the new charts for both: a composite chart, from [Overview tab](/docs/cloud/visualize/overview), and simple chart, from the Single Node view:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the overall look and feel of the new charts for both; a composite chart, from [Overview tab](/docs/cloud/visualize/overview), and a simple chart, from the Single Node view:
```

#TODO add images

With a quick glance you have immediate information available at your disposal:
* Chart title and units
* Action bars
* Chart area
* Legend with dimensions

> ## Play, Pause and Reset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Play, Pause, and Reset
```

Your charts are controlled using the available [Time controls](/docs/dashboard/visualization-date-and-time-controls#time-controls). Besides these, when interacting with the chart you can also activate these controls by:

> * hovering over any chart to temporarily pause it - this momentarily switches time control to Pause, so that you can hover over a specific timeframe. When moving out of the chart time control will go back to Play (if it was it's previous state)

Reviewer: A GIF would be awesome here, it's hard to picture it when reading

Author: On this I forgot to add a #TODO to put a GIF, will do so so I don't forget .)

* clicking on the chart to lock it - this enables the Pause option on the time controls, to the current timeframe. This is if you want to jump to a different chart to look for possible correlations. 
* double clicking to release a previously locked chart - move the time control back to Play

| Interaction          | Keyboard/mouse | Touchpad/touchscreen | Time control           |
| :----------------    | :------------- | :------------------- | :----------------------|
| **Pause** a chart    | `hover`        | `n/a`                | Temporarily **Pause**  |
| **Stop** a chart     | `click`        | `tap`                | **Pause**              |
| **Reset** a chart    | `double click` | `n/a`                | **Play**               |

## Title and chart action bar

> When you start interacting with a chart, you'll notice valuable information on the top bar. You will see information from the chart title to a chart action bar.

Reviewer: Another image here would be nice :)

Author: there is a #TODO at the end of the list to add an image. @jlbriston do you think the image should be before we enumerate the elements?

The elements that you can find on this top bar are:
* Netdata icon: this subtlely indicates that data is continuously being updated, this happens if [Time controls](/docs/dashboard/visualization-date-and-time-controls#time-controls) are in Play or Force Play mode

> * Chart status pill: indicates the status of the chart. Possible values are: Loading, Timeout, Error or No data

Reviewer: What is chart status pill? I don't know if pill is the right verbiage

Author: @jlbriston the pill is something like this (see image below). probably badge could be a better term

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/82235632/135171461-1d57757c-58a6-4da4-84c2-e06fa9b81f66.png)

Reviewer 2: I like "badge" here, for connotative purposes, but. Not returning any results for "pill" in learn.netdata.cloud.

Looks like "badge" has a specific use that kinda fits here: https://learn.netdata.cloud/docs/agent/web/api/badges

Author: Yes, I think "badge" would collide with other functionalities...  I know this is not a balloon, but I can't think of any other term. Any ideas @DShreve2 @jlbriston ?

Reviewer 2: Maybe "status tracking icon"?

Author: status icon should enough I think, thanks for the suggestion

* Chart title: on the chart title you can see the title together with the metric being displayed, as well as the unit of measurement
* Chart action bar: here you'll have access to chart info, change chart types, enable fullscreen mode and the ability to add the chart to a custom dashboard

#TODO add image

### Chart action bar

On this bar you have access to immediate actions over the chart, the available actions are:
* Chart info: you will be able to get more information relevant to the chart you are interacting with

> * Chart type: change the chart type from Line, Stacked or Area

Reviewer: I dont think we need to capitalize line, stacked, or area but I'll leave that up to the documentation pros

Reviewer 2: I could go either way on this. If it's UI elements, we could make them match, but this sentence makes them general chart types so I lean toward Jennifer's suggestion here.

Author: ok, will put lower case and maybe just have them in _italic_

#TODO add image

## Exploration action bar

When exploring the chart you will see a second action bar. This action bar is there to support you on this task. The available actions that you can see are:
* Pan
* Highlight
* Horizontal and Vertical zooms
* In-context zoom in and out

### Pan

Drag your mouse/finger to the right to pan backward through time, or drag to the left to pan forward in time. Think of it like pushing the current timeframe off the screen to see what came before or after.

| Interaction | Keyboard       | Mouse                | Touchpad/touchscreen |
| :---------- | :------------- | :------------------- | :------------------- |
| **Pan**     | `n/a`          | `click + drag`       | `touch drag`         |

### Highlight

Selecting timeframes is useful when you see an interesting spike or change in a chart and want to investigate further, from looking at the same period of time on other charts/sections or, with an in-context action bar, trigger actions to help you troubleshoot (currently only available on
 Single Node view). The available actions:
* run [Metric Correlations](/docs/cloud/insights/metric-correlations)
* zoom in on the selected timeframe

> [Metric Correlations](/docs/cloud/insights/metric-correlations) will action will only be available if you respect the timeframe selection limitations. The selected duration pill together with the button state will help visualize this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Metric Correlations](/docs/cloud/insights/metric-correlations) will only be available if you respect the timeframe selection limitations. The selected duration pill together with the button state will help visualize this.
```

* Chart status icon: indicates the status of the chart. Possible values are: Loading, Timeout, Error or No data
* Chart title: on the chart title you can see the title together with the metric being displayed, as well as the unit of measurement
* Chart action bar: here you'll have access to chart info, change chart types, enable fullscreen mode and the ability to add the chart to a custom dashboard

#TODO add image

### Chart action bar

On this bar you have access to immediate actions over the chart, the available actions are:
* Chart info: you will be able to get more information relevant to the chart you are interacting with
* Chart type: change the chart type from _line_, _stacked_ or _area_
* Enter fullscreen mode: allows you expand the current chart to the fullsize of your screen
* Add chart to dashboard: you can easily add the chart to an existing custom dashboard or directly create a new one with that chart on it

#TODO add image

## Exploration action bar

When exploring the chart you will see a second action bar. This action bar is there to support you on this task. The available actions that you can see are:

> * Pan

Reviewer 3: @hugovalente-pm keyboard shortcuts?

Author: just to reference what we spoke, there are subsections for each one of Pan, highlight, etc. below and we put a table with the shortcuts

the to-dos are for images and GIFs to be added as QA get's into a better state

 ![23CHKCPnnJ.gif](https://images.zenhubusercontent.com/60b4ebb03f4163193ec31819/0b1e111e-df44-4d92-b2e3-be5cfd9db8df)

| Interaction          | Keyboard/mouse | Touchpad/touchscreen | Time control           |
| :----------------    | :------------- | :------------------- | :----------------------|
| **Pause** a chart    | `hover`        | `n/a`                | Temporarily **Pause**  |
| **Stop** a chart     | `click`        | `tap`                | **Pause**              |
| **Reset** a chart    | `double click` | `n/a`                | **Play**               |

## Title and chart action bar

When you start interacting with a chart, you'll notice valuable information on the top bar. You will see information from the chart title to a chart action bar.

The elements that you can find on this top bar are:
* Netdata icon: this indicates that data is continuously being updated, this happens if [Time controls](/docs/dashboard/visualization-date-and-time-controls#time-controls) are in Play or Force Play mode
* Chart status icon: indicates the status of the chart. Possible values are: Loading, Timeout, Error or No data

> * Chart title: on the chart title you can see the title together with the metric being displayed, as well as the unit of measurement

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Chart title: This displays the title together with the metric being displayed, as well as the unit of measurement.
```

> * Chart action bar: here you'll have access to chart info, change chart types, enable fullscreen mode and the ability to add the chart to a custom dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Chart action bar: here you'll have access to chart info, change chart types, enables fullscreen mode, and the ability to add the chart to a custom dashboard
```

![image.png](https://images.zenhubusercontent.com/60b4ebb03f4163193ec31819/c8f5f0bd-5f84-4812-970b-0e4340f4773b)

### Chart action bar

On this bar you have access to immediate actions over the chart, the available actions are:

> * Chart info: you will be able to get more information relevant to the chart you are interacting with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Chart info: This allows you to get more information relevant to the chart with which you are interacting.
```

* Chart type: change the chart type from _line_, _stacked_ or _area_
* Enter fullscreen mode: allows you expand the current chart to the fullsize of your screen

> * Add chart to dashboard: you can easily add the chart to an existing custom dashboard or directly create a new one with that chart on it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Add chart to dashboard: This allows you to add the chart to an existing custom dashboard or directly create a new one that includes the chart.
```

<img src="https://images.zenhubusercontent.com/60b4ebb03f4163193ec31819/65ac4fc8-3d8d-4617-8234-dbb9b31b4264" width="40%" height="40%" />

## Exploration action bar

When exploring the chart you will see a second action bar. This action bar is there to support you on this task. The available actions that you can see are:
* Pan
* Highlight
* Horizontal and Vertical zooms
* In-context zoom in and out

<img src="https://images.zenhubusercontent.com/60b4ebb03f4163193ec31819/0417ad66-fcf6-42d5-9a24-e9392ec51f87" data-canonical-src="https://gyazo.com/eb5c5741b6a9a16c692170a41a49c858.png" width="40%" height="40%" />

### Pan

> Drag your mouse/finger to the right to pan backward through time, or drag to the left to pan forward in time. Think of it like pushing the current timeframe off the screen to see what came before or after.

Author: It is mouse/finger because of the touchscreen tablets or touchscreen PCs not sure we would have the "cursor"

> Drag your mouse/finger to the right to pan backward through time, or drag to the left to pan forward in time. Think of it like pushing the current timeframe off the screen to see what came before or after.

Author: @DShreve2 did it make sense? I'll resolve this comment for now, since it isn't a blocker and we review it later

* zoom in on the selected timeframe

[Metric Correlations](/docs/cloud/insights/metric-correlations) will only be available if you respect the timeframe selection limitations. The selected duration pill together with the button state helps visualize this.

<img src="https://images.zenhubusercontent.com/60b4ebb03f4163193ec31819/2ffc157d-0f0f-402e-80bb-5ffa8a2091d5" width="50%" height="50%" />

<p/>

| Interaction                        | Keyboard/mouse                                            | Touchpad/touchscreen |
| :------------------------------    | :-------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------- |
| **Highlight** a specific timeframe | `Alt + mouse selection` or `⌘ + mouse selection` (macOS)  | `n/a`                |

### Zoom

Zooming in helps you see metrics with maximum granularity, which is useful when you're trying to diagnose the root cause
of an anomaly or outage. Zooming out lets you see metrics within the larger context, such as the last hour, day, or
week, which is useful in understanding what "normal" looks like, or to identify long-term trends, like a slow creep in
memory usage.

> The above ones are _normal_ vertical zoom actions, we also provide an horizontal zoom action that helps you focus on a 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The actions above are _normal_ vertical zoom actions. We also provide an horizontal zoom action that helps you focus on a 
```

| **Horizontal Zoom** a specific Y-axis area | `Shift + mouse horizontal selection` | `n/a`                                                |

You also have two direct action buttons on the exploration action bar for in-context `Zoom in` and `Zoom out`.

## Other interactions

### Order dimensions legend

The bottom legend of the chart where you can see the dimensions of the chart can now be ordered by:
* Dimension name (Ascending or Descending)
* Dimension value (Ascending or Descending)

<img src="https://images.zenhubusercontent.com/60b4ebb03f4163193ec31819/d3031c35-37bc-46c1-bcf9-be29dea0b476" width="50%" height="50%" />

### Show and hide dimensions

Hiding dimensions simplifies the chart and can help you better discover exactly which aspect of your system might be
behaving strangely.

| Interaction                            | Keyboard/mouse  | Touchpad/touchscreen |
| :------------------------------------- | :-------------- | :------------------- |
| **Show one** dimension and hide others | `click`         | `tap`                |
| **Toggle (show/hide)** one dimension   | `Shift + click` | `n/a`                |

### Resize

> Click-and-drag the icon on the bottom-right corner of any chart. To restore the chart to its original height,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To resize the chart, click-and-drag the icon on the bottom-right corner of any chart. To restore the chart to its original height,
```

double-click the same icon.

![AjqnkIHB9H.gif](https://images.zenhubusercontent.com/60b4ebb03f4163193ec31819/1bcc6a0a-a58e-457b-8a0c-e5d361a3083c)

## What's next?

We recommend you read up on the differences between [chart dimensions, contexts, and

> families](/docs/dashboard/dimensions-contexts-families) to complete your understanding of how Netdata organizes its

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
families](/docs/dashboard/dimensions-contexts-families) to strengthen your understanding of how Netdata organizes its
```

---

> ⚠️ This new version of charts is currently **only** available on Netdata Cloud. We didn't want to keep this valuable

> > feature from you, so while we get this into your hands, collect feedback and iterate over it. We'll soon get this

Reviewer 2: I think the first version is right here, but clunky. 

Going to suggest "...so after we get this into your hands on the cloud, we will collect and implement your feedback to make sure we are providing the best possible version of the feature on the Netdata Agent dashboard as quickly as possible."

> available also on Netdata Agent dashboard.

> Netdata excels in collecting, storing, and organizing metrics in out-of-the-box dashboards. To transform all this data into an effective visualization tool, that helps you make sense out of all the available metrics we introduce a new version of  Netdata charts. These

Reviewer 2: Maybe "To transform all this data into a visualization tool effective in making sense out of all the available metrics, we introduce a new version of  Netdata charts."

* clicking on the chart to lock it - this enables the Pause option on the time controls, to the current timeframe. This is if you want to jump to a different chart to look for possible correlations. 
* double clicking to release a previously locked chart - move the time control back to Play

| Interaction          | Keyboard/mouse | Touchpad/touchscreen | Time control           |
| :----------------    | :------------- | :------------------- | :----------------------|
| **Pause** a chart    | `hover`        | `n/a`                | Temporarily **Pause**  |
| **Stop** a chart     | `click`        | `tap`                | **Pause**              |
| **Reset** a chart    | `double click` | `n/a`                | **Play**               |

## Title and chart action bar

When you start interacting with a chart, you'll notice valuable information on the top bar. You will see information from the chart title to a chart action bar.

The elements that you can find on this top bar are:

> * Netdata icon: this subtlely indicates that data is continuously being updated, this happens if [Time controls](/docs/dashboard/visualization-date-and-time-controls#time-controls) are in Play or Force Play mode

Reviewer 2: I'd recommend removing "subtly," but if we leave it, fix spelling.

Author: will remove it

### Highlight

> Selecting timeframes is useful when you see an interesting spike or change in a chart and want to investigate further, from looking at the same period of time on other charts/sections or, with an in-context action bar, trigger actions to help you troubleshoot (currently only available on

Reviewer 2: Struggling with this sentence. Maybe "triggering actions to help you troubleshoot with an in-context action bar."

Author: will fix and push the changes

 Single Node view). The available actions:
* run [Metric Correlations](/docs/cloud/insights/metric-correlations)
* zoom in on the selected timeframe

> [Metric Correlations](/docs/cloud/insights/metric-correlations) will action will only be available if you respect the timeframe selection limitations. The selected duration pill together with the button state will help visualize this.

Reviewer 2: One too many "will" here.
